TRACING-4562: Improve Prometheus port and services documentation (#82619)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/otel-config-send-metrics-monitoring-stack.adoc

[id="configuration-for-sending-metrics-to-the-monitoring-stack_{context}"]
= Configuration for sending metrics to the monitoring stack

> You can configure the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource (CR) to create a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR or a `PodMonitor` CR for a sidecar deployment. A `ServiceMonitor` can scrape Collector's internal metrics endpoint and Prometheus exporter metrics endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource (CR) to create a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR or a `PodMonitor` CR for a sidecar deployment. A `ServiceMonitor` can scrape the Collector's internal metrics endpoint and Prometheus exporter metrics endpoints.
```

Reviewer: I think there is a missing article here for that noun. It reads awkward without it. Everywhere else in the docs it is `the Collector's`.

Reviewer 2: It is missing indeed. Thank you for spotting it.

> As shown in the next example, you can configure the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource (CR) to create a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR, or a `PodMonitor` CR for a sidecar deployment, for scraping the Collector's pipeline metrics and the enabled Prometheus exporters.

Reviewer 3: I do not think the "As shown in the next example" adds anything here. The example title states this. I'd remove this transitional phrase so the focus is on what action the user can take.

> As shown in the next example, you can configure the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource (CR) to create a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR, or a `PodMonitor` CR for a sidecar deployment, for scraping the Collector's pipeline metrics and the enabled Prometheus exporters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource (CR) to create a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR or a `PodMonitor` CR for a sidecar deployment. A sidecar deployment can scrap a Collector's pipeline metrics and any enabled Prometheus exporters.
```

Author: `ServiceMonitor`. I'll fix it.

          receivers: [otlp]
          exporters: [prometheus]
----

> <1> Configures the Operator to create the Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR or `PodMonitor` CR to scrape the Collector's internal metrics endpoint and Prometheus exporter metric endpoints.

Author: The second makes more sense. I'll fix it.

          receivers: [otlp]
          exporters: [prometheus]
----

> <1> Configures the {OTELOperator} to create the Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR or `PodMonitor` CR to scrape the Collector's internal metrics endpoint and Prometheus exporter metrics endpoints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> Configures the {OTELOperator} to create the Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR or `PodMonitor` CR to scrape the Collector's internal metrics endpoint and the Prometheus exporter metrics endpoints.
```

> <1> Configures the {OTELOperator} to create the Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` CR or `PodMonitor` CR to scrape the Collector's internal metrics endpoint and the Prometheus exporter metrics endpoints.

Reviewer 3: The pipe (|) in the example might be causing the colour formatting from exporters: onwards. I'm not going to hold this PR up as it could be out of scope. Maybe experimenting with escape characters might help: https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/subs/prevent/#escape-with-backslashes or substitutions might help: https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/subs/apply-subs-to-blocks/#the-subs-attribute

Author: We want to keep the pipe because it is even how the upstream community documents the objects.

In a following PR, I'll upgrade to the latest version of the CR which removes the pipes.

Reviewer 2: I'd say that the pipe is doing to the block's formatting what it's supposed to do, IOW the coloring can be considered to be correct, so I wouldn't necessary try to find a solution to it.

(Alternatively, we could experiment with removing `yaml` from the block attributes, but the result might be even worse than what it is now.)

[NOTE]
====

> Setting `enableMetrics` to `true` creates two `ServiceMonitor` instances:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Setting `enableMetrics` to `true` creates the following two `ServiceMonitor` instances:
```

Reviewer 3: instances or endpoints? Sticking to one term would help keep the terminology consistent.

Author: Instances
